# Freestyle-Fellows-Engineering-Challenge
Engineering challenge for Freestyle Fellows summer 2018 program.

My algorithm selects which food and drinks to buy based on how many people are pleased with an item relative to the cost of that item. I say 'item' because I consider both food and drinks simultaneously. The algorithm starts by generating file objects opened via function parameters (I assume that the files exist and can be accessed in all cases). It then generates two dictionaries, which are helpful in solving the problem, and are useful because access time is O(1). The first dictionary contains food or drinks as keys, and the number of people that want each food or drink as the values. It is generated using the Counter object from the collections library in Python. The second dictionary contains food or drinks as keys and unit costs as values.

After obtaining the dictionaries, the program generates a third dictionary based on the first two. As mentioned previously, my algorithm carefully selects food and drink options according to how many people are pleased with an item relative to its cost. To obtain an empirical value for this, simply divide the number of people that want an item by its cost - creating a people-pleased-per-dollar-spent value. The third dictionary has items as keys and people-pleased/$1 as values. I then sort this using pythons sorted() function, which is an O(n log n) operation. 

It then iterates through the reverse of the third dictionary (so that it starts with higher people-pleased/1$ values). The loop first checks if we can even afford the item in question, by checking the cost dictionary - if we cannot afford it, we move on to the next highest people-pleased/1$ value. If we can afford it, the algorithm subtracts the cost of the item from the budget and adds the item to the list of things to buy.

I assume, in the process, that no more than 10,000 separate items will be considered. This is because all of the loops in the algorithm run in linear time - only the sorting runs in O(n log n). With 10,000 items, this begins to become very slow. I also assume that buying 1 unit of a certain item is enough to please everyone who wants it - i.e. we buy a large bag of chips, a large tray of vegetables and dip, a 2-litre bottle of Coca-Cola, etc. I also assume that the files in question always exist, and that all files are delimited as described in the problem statement. 

I provide test cases in the file called test_party.py _. I test for normal cases with normal budgets first. Then, I check that the algorithm doesn't always select to buy the item with the highest people-pleased/1$ - sometimes, we cannot afford this item. Finally, I check to make sure that the algorithm tells me that I can't buy anything if I have a 0 or negative budget. 
